Your first answer is preserved. You correctly distinguished the saved evidence from what was actually included, and did not infer a new capture, mutation or check from a retrieval. This follow-up supplies facts that were not all available in that first question. It remains development consultation, not a resumed coding run. No action you propose here will execute.

Two clarifications respond to your answer:

1. The exact report bytes are absent, but its existing version guard is not missing or expired. Event 15 names RES-0015, reports/incident.json, file_sha256 22efad348a13802b9bc50b72ff44cdb2234b2c9faacc9f4b33ddaea77ea68509, and candidate_id 28441db41e7ca5385feb03c96574fed32acfc4d67e7e608c93572fe06ed8033d. That is also the displayed current candidate. No mutation occurs in the complete 20-event history, and the host permits no unrecorded candidate edits in this run. Reopening that saved read can recover the same current file content; a new read is also valid. Historical acquisition does not automatically become stale. After a real edit, changed content must be distinguished from an unchanged file. There is likewise no check in this complete history: a passing result has not been established. Absence of a displayed check-flag field is not evidence of an unrecorded check.

2. The report compares captured original and emitted trees; current compiler source explains the repair but cannot establish what the historical builds emitted. Below are the exact complete source contents already acquired in events 18, 15 and 17, now supplied separately as assisted development material. These bodies were NOT visible in your first question.

BEGIN EXACT README.md FROM EVENT 18
# Selected-function optimizer

`compiler.api.optimize(source, functions=None)` parses a Python module and returns
an independent optimized AST. With `functions=None` it processes all top-level
functions. With a sequence of function names it processes exactly those functions.
Unknown names are rejected. Nonselected functions and module-level statements
must retain their structure. The input syntax tree is never modified in place.

The small optimizer may simplify unary signs applied to numeric literals. It must
at least eliminate unary plus on exact built-in integer and float literals in
selected functions. It must preserve Python's values, types, exceptions and
operator dispatch everywhere else, including negative zero and user-defined
unary operators. Constant folding is optional for other cases when equivalent.

Historical input and emitted trees are available in the observation directory.
They are Python 3.12 `ast.dump` records with field names, excluding source-location
attributes. Each emitted tree describes a complete module, including functions
outside that build's selected scope. These captures precede the repair session;
changing this checkout does not change what those builds emitted.

Complete `reports/incident.json` using this structure:

    {"builds": [
      {"capture": "<emitted-tree handle>",
       "changed_functions": ["<function name>", "..."],
       "first_change": {"function": "<name>",
                        "before": "<original expression>",
                        "after": "<emitted expression>"}}
    ]}

Include every captured emitted build. Compare with the captured original tree.
List all top-level functions whose AST changed, in source order. Locate the first
expression whose node kind changed, traversing functions in source order and
their fields in normal Python AST order. Express its original and emitted forms
as ordinary Python expressions (equivalent parentheses/spacing are accepted).
This is the incident work product, not a claim that the repaired candidate was
used by the historical builds. The public check validates the optimizer contract
and the report; its report failures do not supply the missing incident facts.
END EXACT README.md FROM EVENT 18

BEGIN EXACT reports/incident.json FROM EVENT 15
{"builds": []}
END EXACT reports/incident.json FROM EVENT 15

BEGIN EXACT compiler/unary.py FROM EVENT 17
import ast


class UnarySimplifier(ast.NodeTransformer):
    def visit_UnaryOp(self, node):
        node = self.generic_visit(node)
        if isinstance(node.op, (ast.UAdd, ast.USub)):
            return ast.copy_location(node.operand, node)
        return node
END EXACT compiler/unary.py FROM EVENT 17

The actual host behavior and offline measurements add another distinction:

- Event 20 really returned the 9,228-byte saved OBS-0001 JSON successfully. The next sent input was the one you examined: its exact body was absent. The original actor also recognized the absence and then chose {"action":"reopen_result","handle":"RES-0005"}. That action is historical evidence, not a required answer for you.
- Successful tool construction, durable storage, inclusion in the next input, and useful work from that input are separate facts. The 22,000-byte return bound does not promise next-input inclusion. The archived input showed neither its numeric 16,000 input-token ceiling nor a guarantee that a requested result would remain visible.
- In that original admission attempt, retaining only the newest body while externalizing earlier bodies required 16,218 native input tokens, so it was rejected by the 16,000 ceiling. The sent all-external input required 12,688. The existing rule externalizes an oldest prefix of payloads until admission fits, while retaining all ordered event signals; even the newest body can be removed.
- A separately labeled offline probe allowed nonprefix selection without changing event signals, identities, guards, task or tool requirements. Its different sequence-list bookkeeping changes the token count slightly. In the same state, README plus current unary source alone cost 13,212 tokens, with the newest original capture released. Keeping those two sources AND the newest capture cost 16,745. A possible BUILD-A report group (README, exact current report, original capture and BUILD-A capture) cost 20,171. Both emitted builds cost 23,695. These were researcher-selected whole-body examples, not proven minimum requirements, Qwen-selected groups, executed actions or demonstrated contributions.
- In the later saved C02 state, even all payloads external required 16,154 tokens. Thus accumulated full event signal alone eventually prevents admission at 16,000. Removing the whole event frame solely to measure its cost saved 9,143 tokens in the earlier state, but deleting it is not a qualified usable interface.
- The selected physical context is 56,576; the current planning generation reserve is 32,768 and the maximum admitted input is 23,808. The 16,000 treatment is an input working-set limit, not that physical capacity. Generation remains uncapped, so fitting an input is not a guarantee that its response will finish. No larger budget, new retention rule or new tool has been adopted.

With these distinctions, what do you recommend for the next practical development step? Choose one concrete saved contribution, such as a justified patch or one supported report entry, and state the evidence and target needed together through its edit and ensuing feedback. Acquisition can be necessary, but distinguish it from the saved contribution. If a complete public check would still fail because other required work is unfinished, say what it could and could not verify at that point.

Then assess the current presentation and operating rule: retaining them, proposing at most one narrow change, or identifying an unresolved capacity choice are all acceptable outcomes. If you propose a change, connect it to the demonstrated limitation, state what would be included or omitted and how exact historical recovery and version protections would remain usable. Do not invent a tool or handle as if it already exists. What observation during actual contribution-and-continuation work would show whether the proposal helped? A preference alone or a shorter answer would not establish that benefit. We are not requesting a general memory architecture or treating your retrospective explanation as proof of cause.
